>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so let's
figure out how we're going to do that.
Okay, so when we enqueue,
we're gonna add it to the storage, so
let's start with that.
So we're gonna say this.storage
= our this.storage.
Then we need to do the length.
So we have our length here.
Let's start that at 0 and
then we can also do
r.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
notice I call this head index.
Personally, I like to be really
annoying with my naming.
So this is clear cuz this is a head index,
this is not a pointer to the head.
So in a link list, maybe you would say
this.head, or head node I think would
even be better so that you know that
it's either a node or an index.
So it's better when things get complicated
and you can't remember what something is.
So we're gonna say this.length
= our value, right?
Same as before.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right and
then now we wanna set our head,
do we wanna set our head index?
We want to initialize our head,
so every time.
Only if, so here's a good one.
So if,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm gonna put it up
here, and we might move it.
So if (this.length === 0),
we want to say this.headIndex =
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
if it's zero we want to make sure
the head index, well it's still zero.
So if it's one, we wanna set it to one.
No, we don't wanna do that, we'll keep
it as zero, we're good with it at zero.
We won't change it until we delete it
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, okay.
So then,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's just
increment it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
think that'll get us there.
All right, so and
we have some other to do's here.
We could do type checking.
Whenever I see this I'm like,
is it off by one?
No, in this case we start by zero.
Okay, we're good.
Type checking input validation and
stuff like that.
We can just call this and put validation.
Our argument validation,
argument validation.
Okay, all right, and the other thing
is I would to ask an interview like,
do you want me to return anything?
Typically I don't return
something from enqueue, but
you can always just clarify if they
want something to be returned or not.
So don't just make an assumption
about what they expect.
Let's do the DQ.
So actually, let's test this,
so let's make sure NQ works.
Let's get rid of that.
We want to run this and see if it matches.
That's cuz I'm not
console logging anything.
Is it plugged in?
This is my, is it plugged test.
Okay, so we have zero and
we have one we have a length two.
Head index is two, that is a problem.
We don't wanna change it every time.
All right, maybe we just don't
need that in there at all, yeah.
That makes sense to me.
>> Speaker 2: Well,
cuz we really don't care,
we only care about the very first time and
initialize.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
which we said it here.
And it's only gonna
change once we dequeue.
I'm glad we checked that because
would have introduced a weird bug.
It would have been a problem.
Okay, so dequeue we
are going to say lastValue
= this_storage and
then this done.
So we're gonna get the last one
which is the length minus one.
Key that minus one there.
What do I wanna do?
Then we wanna delete it.
>> Speaker 2: Why do we care about that
length going to the first letter.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You're right,
thank you.
You guys are so good at this.
Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Just the first value maybe.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hm?
>> Speaker 2: Const first value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thank you.
We're gonna delete the first value and
then we will delete it.
So we store it, we delete it, and
now we need to make sure our
pointers are catching on.
Okay, so
our length needs to be decremented.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then our head,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Needs to be
incremented.
>> Speaker 2: Why?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Because-
>> Speaker 2: Because we moved the first
one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
then we want it to go to one, and then-
>> Speaker 2: Makes sense.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, we wanna just
keep.
>> Speaker 2: We're like resetting it to
the next one because we know we
removed the first one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm hm.
>> Speaker 2: So we know now
it's kinda moving on to the-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Index one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, exactly.
What else do we need?
I think, so again,
if it was empty we could check for
that if this.length.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
let's test out our code.
So we're going to dequeue it and we're
expecting it to look something like this.
Let's check it out,
make it a little bigger.
Okay, so one, length is 1, head index 1,
awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then we wanna check this one.
To make sure that, oops,
we don’t wanna do that,
that we're still getting the correct.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, one, two.
Interesting.
We have a weird bug here.
So one is equal to two, off by one error.
Let's check that out.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We need to, so when we
dequeue, the length is two.
>> Speaker 2: The length is right but
the value is wrong.
It's like we rewrote it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Maybe
we don't need to, well I feel like, so
we wanna decrement it there.
It's interesting that it's setting
maybe we also forgot to return this.
So we forgot to return that.
That's not our issue.
So this.length is 1 but
we want it
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Maybe we
need to do this because we want it
to be the length after the head.
Remember we need to move it.
So once head is incremented, so
if the first go around is 0,
the headIndex, but then the next
round it's going to move up one.
And let's check it out.
Do you guys understand what our bug was?
>> Speaker 3: Can you explain it again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah sure, so
remember down here.
So when we enqueue two,
we need to get the value 2,
but the length is 1 before, right?
So with the length 1, remember I
was saying like head plus lass or
something I forgot exactly what i was
even talking about at that point.
But we need to add these together because
the length is 2, but the head starts at 1.
So this is 1, 2, but
say this started at 14,
you can't just look it up at
the length because the length could be
a list of length one, but
it should be starting on the 14th index.
So when we enqueue, or on queue,
we can't just use distance length.
We need to find what
the last Index is in that
kind of sub-array that we're creating.
So the head index is the very
first on the list, and
then the length is how many more
after you need to put something.
So to put it another way,
let's say we have, so
when we onqueue here two goes into our
on queue method, the top in there,
let's take this with us though.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We'll
take it with us so we can look at it.
So here's our
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Data structure.
So we've dequeued, and
we only have this right now.
So our head starts at 1, the length is 1.
If we wanna insert the value 2,
we want to insert it
into the second index.
And the reason we wanna do this is so
that we can mathematically figure
out which index we're going to next.
Otherwise, our look up would be in
linear time, cuz we would need to loop
through the whole object to
find what we're looking for.
So we need to be able to just add it
up mathematically for constant time.
So we wanna get the index to two, and
then we're gonna put our value there.
So that's what we wanna do.
So based on the data that we have
which is our headIndex starts at one,
and the length of our
original is just one,
we can say length plus headIndex gives us
that index that we are interested in and
that's why we have this math here.
So we can even do something like this,
const nextIndex, so that we are really
clear about what this represents.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
even like, actually let's say lastIndex.
Good?